Redstone is power
-----------------
Redstone is all about 'power'. You can think of it as being the electricity within Minecraft.

Redstone power comes from a power source, and can be transmitted to devices which will then do something in response.

power sources:
---------------
Power sources provide redstone power. They include switches, redstone torches and the like.
These blocks provide a redstone signal. Power sources can always be on (redstone torches,
blocks of redstone), or they can be switches that are activated by the player, or they can be sensors that respond to various factors.


Lever
-------

The lever can be switched on and off with a right-click. 
In the on position, the lever will power both its own block and the block that is attached.

Stone button
-------------
When your right-click on a stone button attached to a block, 
both its own block and one next to it are powered for one second. The stone button provides a momentary pulse of power.


Redstone torch
------------
The redstone torch is the most basic item in redstone circuits.
Once placed, it powers its own block, plus the one above it. It's a constant source of power.



Most types of blocks can become powered. Blocks can be powered when they contain a power source, or when they're attached to a power source. 
For example, if you push a button, two blocks become powered: the block containing the button, and the block the button is attached to.

Blocks that can be powered
----------------------------
All types of stone and brick blocks
Dirt, grass, gravel, sand
Wood, wool
Double slabs
Droppers and dispensers

Blocks that can NOT be powered
-------------------------------
Glass, ice, glowstone
Stairs and single slabs
Chests
Leaves
Pistons and hoppers

Switch blocks on
Once a block is powered, it can switch on the blocks directly next to it. 
The blocks that are switched on aren't themselves powered. 
They won't transmit power to their neighbors, but if the switched ON blocks are devices, they'll be activated.



"Device" is a term used to describe anything that does something when it receives a redstone signal. When a device is "switched on," things happen such as a light lights, a door opens, or TNT explodes.
Devices that can be activated include: doors, pistons, dispensers, note blocks, and minecart rails.


Piston:
A piston is a block capable of pushing movable blocks, players, and mobs when given a redstone pulse.


Lamp:
A redstone lamp is a block that produces light when activated with a redstone signal.

Doors:
Wood and Iron doors can be controlled with redstone power.
Iron doors can only be opened with redstone; wooden doors be opened either by hand or with redstone.

How do you transmit power between the power source and the device?
--------------------------------------------------------------------
Redstone dust is a mineral that can transmit redstone power when placed as a block.
Redstone dust will connect to form a wire that can even go up and down steps.  
Redstone wire is used to transmit power from place to place, just like electrical wire. 

Redstone wire becomes powered when it's next to a powered block.
Here are some examples of a powered block: 

A block containing a power source 
The block with attached lever
The block above a redstone torch
Redstone power runs along the redstone wire, powering the blocks underneath the wire.






